but
I was naive enough that I didn't. A fellow sat
pretty close to me. Ah, I see. Other than that, I
didn't know really what it was after. Nobody ever
tried to get any money from you or get you drunk?
Generally, you felt comfortable. That's what
I've heard over and over and over. And you never
used a sign... to hold up with your destination?
And if
you were going from here to Olney, what route did
you take? Could
you do that in a day? Most of the times we did it that
day, a couple of times I spent a night someplace.
Let's see. So you didn't eat, that freshman year,
you didn't eat many meals on the campus? No. The
only time that you ate is occasionally you'd go
over the YMCA where they had a soda shop and you
would just get a drink there or soda or something of
the sort. Do you remember how much money,
spendable money, you had that first year? Not very
much. Probably less
than $50. I calculated the entire cost of that
first year was $325. Tuition, clothes, meals. Had
your father given you any particular part of a herd
or acreage for you to work and save money from? No,
in my 4-H work, I was given... Okay. I bought cattle
and things of this sort. And so you saved from that?
I saved from that. About how much did you have in
your account? Do you remember? Oh, I think we had
almost $600, $700, $800. Oh. Pretty much. By
today's standards, that's a good sum. I do recall
coming back the second semester of my sophomore
year, I had to borrow from my brother's account. I
did not work. While you were here? While I was here.
I had no job. Except the last year, I did have a small
paying job.
Let's see, in terms of your freshman year, as you
now look back, what were the key academic classes
that you took that freshman year and the impact
they had on you? The English class, classes, the
course in agricultural economics had an impact
because I began to learn the world. Of course, I
felt at home in the animal science class or animal
husbandry class. Mm-hmm. probably I learned a
great deal. I'd say most of them, but probably the
most impact course as I came along was a course in
chemistry. Who taught that? Do you remember? Was
the instructor part of the impact? The fellow whom
for this fire is named after.
Not Isbell. Not Texas, well, I don't know.
When did you begin to think about what your major
was going to be? At the outset. Okay. You had your
mind made up? I was going to be an animal husbandry
major no matter what. Okay, okay. I came here with
that idea. I was going to be an animal husbandry
major. It never changed, except there was a bottle
or two along the way, and I had some ideas that I had.
What did you think was the expected routine for
going to class? How did a student behave in class
and so forth? The expected routine was that you
went to class. It was never any thought of missing a
class. The only time that you missed a class was
when you were ill or in a hospital or something of
that sort where you just simply couldn't make it.
We walked into class, sat down, took notes,
followed the instruction. The instructor was it.
He knew everything. And so that was where we were
learning. It's a duality of learning. Right or
wrong, yes or no, this is it. Do you remember any
incidents where someone went to sleep and what the
instructor did? Not until, not the freshman year.
Okay. Go ahead to the others. Well, sophomore year
in chemistry class, the instructor was an
interesting kind of a thing. He'd throw chalk at
the guy.
That... freshman year you didn't have any problem
passing your work? Not at all. I was distinguished
both semesters. I had a 2.25 waypoint ratio, a
little better. Under the old three-point. And
what did, what were your mom and dad's reaction to
your work? They were happy. They were happy. I
don't think they were effusive, but they were
happy.
They were happy to have me home in the summertime,
and they were missing me. Back home in the summer,
what did you do? Well, I helped my dad. Worked on the
farm. Did you get paid? No. Did you get an
allowance?
No. I understand that fully. That was the routine I
had. During
your undergraduate years here, can you recall and
share any jokes, prank, good bull that you either
were part of or you observed? Not really, no. As I
say, it was kind of a shock. I need to tell you that
during the sophomore year, I came back at the
beginning of the sophomore year into Russell
Hall,
was assigned to another unit called D Battery
Field Artillery, which was a truck-drawn unit.
And I began to feel that if you were going to be on
campus or be at Texas A&M University,
you better associate yourself with the Corps. So
in the middle of the sophomore year, first
semester of the sophomore year, I moved into
dormitories and stayed there all the way through.
Was there any reaction by the other sophomores?
Not really. I think I was assigned a roommate that
the others might have felt funny about. But they
didn't call you a frog or anything? Didn't treat
you like a transfer. I had gone through a fish year.
I was fish couple the first year. I was a sophomore
and expected to do the hazing at the sophomores and
to respond as a sophomore would. And it was an
integration, complete integration at the very
outset. Now, what dormitory were you in then, that
second? All right, and this is in, quote, the new
dorm area. The new dorm area. But there were still,
part of the Corps was still housed in the North Gate
area? No, then. Oh, they were all down in the...
They were down then. Oh, okay. All right. So now...
It didn't happen until the moving to the part of the
Corps to the North Gate area did not come to the
completion of the dormitories up here. Okay.
Which was, what, 42? Okay.
So now you were part of the entire Corps routine.
I was within it, and I came along and
went through the ROTC situation. Came back my
seventh and eighth junior year, expecting to
continue in the Corps and flunk the physical.
Really? Yes. I had
what they would call a pilonidal cyst. that I'd
been born with and apparently this was this kind of
discounted any officer being at it because it
could become infected I never had any infection so
I might say that during the Christmas holidays I
went into Wichita Falls and had the thing cut out
and came back and by the end of the junior year I was
in contract, but I ended up the following as a
senior year with what is known as a one-button
second lieutenant. I lost all the, well I don't
know whether my military career would have, or my
military abilities would have sent me up along But
you remained in the Corps all four years. In the
same unit, D Battery Field Artillery. I graduated
out of D Battery Field Artillery. And by far the
majority of the student body was in the Corps all
four years, weren't they? Oh, I'd say yes, by far.
Well, everybody was in the Corps, with the
exception of some graduate students. were not in
the Corps, even if you were physically unfit, you
were still in the Corps. They didn't have, I guess
maybe they had what is equivalent to DNC today, but
it was a ceremony, but you didn't know it. That was a
living quarters for students where that's where
they had to be. Your four years were from the fall of
39, to January 43. 43. During those years, as you
look back, please describe some of the memorable
teachers, advisors, counselors that you recall,
people that touched your life. Well, it turned out
that the one person that touched my life more, and I
continue to touch it after I came back, was a
teacher by the name of Paul Pearson.
and take a course in nutrition. I liked it. I had the
chemistry, and I decided that maybe that I wanted
to do this kind of thing. Curiously, another
professor that I enjoyed and had was Dr. John
Miloff, veterinary medicine. See, I decided that
I wanted to be, possibly be, a veterinarian. My
parents put the kibosh to that. You are not going to
be a veterinarian. We're going to pay for four
years. That's it. You're on your own after that. So
I went to see Dean Marsteller and Dean Kyle. And
Dean Marsteller gave me permission to take the
veterinary courses in the first year of
veterinary medicine. While you were still an
undergraduate? Junior year.
Were there many that got to do that? As far as I know,
I was the only one. As far as I know, I'm not the only
one to ever do that. I don't know of any. I've never
heard of anyone else that did that. That was, of
course, the best year of my life because that
essentially
built the background upon which I built my
graduate work That's on to coming into the
professorial positions and that sort. All right,
who were some others? You mentioned a couple. Who
were some other faculty members that made a
difference? Bill Warren, John Riggs. Bill Warren
was there. John Riggs, particularly. You had to
like him. E.P. Humbert. That's a new name for me.
H-U-M-B-E-R-T.
What did he do? The head of the Department of
Genetics. And he took the beginning course in
genetics. Later on, John Quisenberry came into
play, but took a course in animal breeding under
him, in genetics.
P.W. Williams.
He would later become... He became acting
president of the university and the Williams...
Now, he was animal science? He was animal science.
He was head of animal science. Who were some
characters you remember, character teachers,
idiosyncrasies? Snooks. Who? A fellow by the name
of Snooks. What did he teach, and why was he
unusual? He was unusual. He'd come to class, and
he'd turn the water on. You see this water? You
don't touch it. It's mine. It's mine. And he would
write on the blackboard and then erase it
immediately. He would look out the window. He was
clearly a character. Now, he's not the one that
caught the student cheating with his watch, was
it? It could have been. It could have been.
Somebody told me an incident about where the
person teaching one of the big general chemistry
courses, he thought he saw this student cheating
on the final. And so he goes out the back door, comes
all the way around, walks up to the back of the
student, and... the student is looking at this
watch, and he says, okay, stand up, I caught you.
Now stand up and read what you got on that watch. And
as the student thrust the watch in front of the
faculty member, he read it, and it said, I fooled
you this time, you old son of a bitch. But this
wasn't Snooks. All right, who, some other, some
other characters.
Some other characters. That was bad. Those were
pretty reasonable people. Let's see, the YMC,
there was no MSC. Describe what it provided for
students. I don't know what in particular it
provided for students. The only thing that I could
see that it provided was a place where Lutherans
could gather on campus. Missouri Synod. All
right, and what did you, Missouri Synod
Lutherans, when did you gather and what did you do?
We'd gather in the afternoons or we'd gather in the
evenings or... times we formed what is known as a
club. Then when they built the church in Bryan,
some of us became members of that church. Now, when
you all got together, was it always religion that
you talked about? Not necessarily. I'm sure other
things such as football entered into the picture.
Were there some off-campus people that supported
you? Were there any key? There was a fellow that I
knew, the Reverend Henry Traubach,
T-R-A-U-G-O-T-T,
who was living at Curtin at the time, and he came in,
and we did not have a Lutheran church, Missouri
Synod, in either Bryan or College Station. There
was one in another Lutheran church, but we had been
taught so strictly that we thought that was a bunch
of heretics.
Let's see, were the Kunze boys, did they overlap
with you? Yes. And they were Missouri Synod?
George was a junior when I was a senior. And he was
Missouri Synod, was he not? Missouri Synod. Okay.
Let's see, MSC, Guyon Hall. What do you remember
that happened in Guyon Hall? Oh, Guyon Hall was a
wonderful place that we always had. Town Hall it
was called. We all had tickets to Town Hall. And all
the programs, they were generally classic or
semi-classical. So this was music?
Do you remember any of the performers?
No, I don't.
What about, were there some notable speakers?
I don't recall any. What about Religious Emphasis
Week? Was it held then? I don't recall. I don't
think so. Because I know it was after the war. I
don't know about before that. Religious Emphasis
Week. Did you go to movies at Gine Hall? We did
movies at Gine Hall. No, there was an assembly hall
that movies had mostly. More often we'd go into
Bryan for movies. Hitchhiking to Bryan. Because
you didn't have a car. I didn't have a car. Very few
people had cars. In fact, it was almost forbidden
for students to have cars. Mm-hmm. Let's see, in
Guyon Hall, did anybody ever create any mischief
during a movie or a concert? Oh, not during
concerts, but during a movie occasionally we'd
have somebody come up with a loud expletive. Oh,
okay, okay. Do you remember any famous, during
your undergraduate days, do you remember any
famous visitors to the campus? Don't remember any
presidents or generals or anything like that.
Eisenhower came in. I was not here when he came.
That's after the war. The Secretary of
Agriculture came in one time. Henry Wallace? No.
Let's see, football games. 1939 was a pretty good
year for the Aggie football team. It was a very good
year. I started football believing that Aggies
couldn't lose.
Of course, the yell practice was held in front of
the YMCA. Describe a yell practice in those days.
Was
it late on Friday evening? Yes. I don't know that it
was a midnight Yale practice in the same sense. But
it was after dark? After dark. Did young ladies, if
anybody had a date, did they take their date to Yale
practice? Yes. They were always welcome. They
came down. There were a few, but they were there.
And come in, either local ladies or TSCW. And you
all, on Saturday, the routine, was it similar to
today in terms of marching into? We all marched in,
yes. And did you? We all marched in. Of course, that
was a student body. And you stood and? We stood.
During the first half and the second half and sat
down during the... Did you have, during your
undergraduate days, did you have a date for many
games?
In my senior year, I had two or three dates for
games. And where were they from? Local.
Currently, really, to be sure. Okay, okay.
Did you do the court trips that year to the
out-of-town games? We went to court trips to
Houston, Fort Worth, Dallas. How did you... By
train. By train. And where did you stay? Um...
Usually in some hotel, basically. It was never a
particular problem or we moved in with somebody
that we knew. Somebody
had a home there or stayed there or something of
that sort. Do you remember any major events for any
of the Corps trips during your undergraduate
days?
Was there any that you enjoyed more or far less than
any of the others? What was your favorite court
trip? My favorite court trip was always to
Houston. It was shorter and you could get by. I had a
roommate from Galveston. So you'd go down there
and stay with him? Stay with him. And you marched
down Main Street? Marched down whatever Main
Street there was. All right, like in Houston, Rice
is a good distance from the middle of downtown. How
did the Corps get from the middle of downtown down
to Rice Stadium? You know, I was wondering about
that. I don't recall. Because it's too far to walk.
I always had a ride or something, an automobile
ride. The reason why I don't remember is because it
was never a problem, I guess. Okay, okay. While you
were an undergraduate, what were the major
student organizations on campus? What student
organizations had high prestige and
Well, it was an organization I did not know about.
But apparently a number of the students belonged
to,
particularly the military leaders in the Corps.
You're talking about one of the secret
fraternities? One of the secret fraternities. As
far as you know, or knew then, Or as far as you know
now about then, how many of those were there? How
many of those secret fraternities? As far as I
know, there was only one. The TTs? The TTs. Two
Texans. Do you have any idea how many were in the
TTs? No idea. I know I came across a situation and
tried to come up with them and lost pretty heavily
because of it. That requires a bit of explanation.
Mm-hmm. During my junior year, I decided that I was
going to do, so I signed up with the Longhorn. I
became a staff member of the Longhorn. The
yearbook. Yearbook. And was one of the editors, or
one of the staff people as far as yearbook was
concerned. And of course, I ran against the fellow
who finally became editor it was an election
process
for editor of the yearbook in 19 last year was there
1942 43 yearbook uh lost lost pretty heavily and it
was a blow to my ego at that particular point and as
far as you know then later on I learned that a lot of
the people that were running for office and things
for all these people that were in the True Texan
organization. I was never there. I was sort of an
outsider then. Maybe that's what I resented a
little bit about my classmates as far as I'm
concerned. As far as I have been able to learn about
the TTs and any other group, their primary purpose
seems to have been to get their own members into
positions of student leadership. That's right.
That's the best I can get. That's the best I can get.
They did it.
And nobody knew exactly how many they were or where
they met. Is that right?
Let's see. The key organizations, the band, which
I was not a member of, obviously. But was it? Was it
highly respected?
Was there even a student body president then?
There was a student body president, and he carried
a great deal of prestige. Of course, the other
person was commander of the Corps. What about Head
Yellator? The Yellators themselves were
well-known, and I I suspect admired. They were all
basically elected to the particular positions.
Senior class president, was that a highly sought
position? That was, I didn't seek it, but nor did I
seek any class offers as far as... But I mean, in the
hierarchy on the campus, was that... Yes, it was.
It was one of the people that you began to remember,
and as a result, a lot of these people who were
leadership did become leaders after graduation,
and you heard about them, both in the community and
away. So you got here as World War II is beginning.
Let's try to think about the effect of the war. When
did you first realize that that war that started
September 1, 1939 might have an effect on your
life? Probably at the very beginning. Because we
all knew that the United States was going to get in
it. And I think when they passed the Selective
Service Act is when you begin to realize that the
best thing to do is to stay in Texas A&M and become
part of the military there if you possibly could.
Did you and your buddies talk about the war much in
your ordinary conversations? No, we didn't,
actually. It was sort of a distant kind of thing.
course on December 5th in 1941. Where were you when
you heard that news? I had just come back from a
field trip out in the area for an agronomy soils
course. And as we drove up, there was a bunch of us in
the back end of a truck, an open truck. The campus
was going wild at that particular point. They
shouted the Japanese had bombed Pearl Harbor.
That was the first we heard about it. Did you know
where Pearl Harbor was? Yes. Oh, you did? Okay. I
was a sixth grader, and I didn't know. Our teacher
had to tell us. We knew where Hawaii was, but we
didn't know about Pearl Harbor. Did you and your
buddies listen on Monday, December 8th? We were in
the Dono, yes. To the Roosevelt speech? We were
listening to the Roosevelt speech and the
missiles.
What changes were there on campus soon after the
war started?
Well, you suddenly, you knew where you were going
to be, and this was December 41, and it became to me,
imperative to get that contract in order to stay in
the military and not be pulled in as a... As a
draftee? As a draftee.
I don't think there was as much change in the campus
as that, except that the planning began to change
where we were going to go to school straight
through. We no longer had a... The summer was going
to disappear. The 1943 class year started in June.
So that you started 12 months a year. We started 12
months a year. And did the semester length change?
Was it still September through the end of January,
January through the end of May? It was through the
end of January. Okay. Probably, no, the semester
length did not change. Okay. Nor did it
juxtaposition. So you just...